The American Society of Magical Negroes is a 2024 American comedy film written, directed, and produced by Kobi Libii in his directorial debut.
It stars Justice Smith, David Alan Grier, An-Li Bogan, Drew Tarver, Michaela Watkins, Aisha Hinds, Tim Baltz, Rupert Friend and Nicole Byer.
The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 19, 2024, and was followed by a theatrical release by Focus Features in the United States on March 15, 2024.

Plot:
A young African-American man, Aren, exhibits his yarn sculpture at an art gallery, without success: nobody wants to buy.
The white gallery owner tells him to go sell his work with a particular white patron; the patron mistakes him for a waiter and gives him his empty glass.
Aren, deferent and polite, doesn't complain, but takes the glass to a bar where African-American bartender Roger commiserates with him.
Aren puts his yarn sculpture into the trash behind the gallery and walks home.
He gets money from an ATM; then a young, drunk white woman asks him for help, claiming she's having trouble with the ATM.
Her card gets stuck in it while he's holding her purse; she starts screaming, and two white men come to beat him up.
However, Roger appears, magically makes the purse return to the woman, and calms the three whites with a pleasant recommendation for a local barbecue restaurant.
Roger says he has employment for Aren, and takes him to a meeting of "The American Society of Magical Negroes", a secretive group of African Americans whose cause is to make white people feel more secure, since whites will then be less dangerous to Blacks.
Aren sees a magical presentation, superintended by Society member Gabbard, of past events, where a 1920's Black man reassures a fallen white pool champion about his skills, and then a 1950's Black prisoner on Death Row thanks a white guard for the harmonica the guard smuggles in (and plays it while walking away), then touches the guard's crotch area to make him fertile, since the guard, abused by his own bosses, doesn't feel like a man. Roger trains Aren, having him get a shy white police officer, Miller, into a slick dance nightclub.
Aren knocks into a young non-African-American woman of color, Lizzie, at a coffee shop, and offers to buy her coffee to replace what he spilled, and flirts with her.
However, his pocket-watch from the Society calls him away. Roger assigns him to comfort depressed, white Jason, who works at "Meetbox", an online social network.
Aren starts working there, and finds Lizzie works there too.
Aren develops feelings for Lizzie, but finds Jason may also have feelings for Lizzie, Jason's "work wife".
Aren bumps into her again and a piece of jewelry reading "SOSWAG" falls from her purse.
News media report that facial-recognition software at Meetbox has trouble recognizing Black people.
Mick, the British founder of Meetbox, calls an online meeting of employees and makes some cosmetic improvements.
Lizzie develops feelings for Aren too, but Roger insists Aren stifle his own feelings and promote both Jason's professional life and romantic life, i.e., pairing Jason with Lizzie.
(Roger himself faced a similar situation.)
Masterson, Jason and Aren's immediate boss, chooses Jason for a prestigious online presentation with Mick, even though Lizzie developed the project.
Aren is to help Jason's presentation, but then rebels.
During the presentation, as people worldwide watch, he assertively confronts Jason, who told Aren that he was there to add diversity to the presentation.
Aren decries that, then says he has struggled all his life in a society that doesn't want him, and only recently has concluded that he does belong.
Jason, Masterson, and Mick observe in shock.
Aren finds Lizzie and they kiss; then he magically spirits her to the Empire State Building.
However, he disappears, summoned to the Society headquarters.
DeDe, the Society head, who used to be able to float in the air magically, now cannot do so, since Aren's abandoning his mission has disrupted the Society's magic.
DeDe expels him from the Society.
Roger prepares to erase magically Aren's memories of all that happened.
However, it doesn't work; the magic is fading.
Aren has sparked rebellion among Society members, e.g., a farm hand who refuses to help a white farmer, and an executive who was earlier touching a white executive's crotch, but now insists his own crotch be touched too.
Aren notes Lizzie has made it back to Los Angeles; he finds her and they reconcile.
However, in the last scene, Lizzie goes into a hairstylist and takes a secret entrance to visit her own Society: "SOSWAG", or "Society of Supportive Wives and Girlfriends".

Cast:
Justice Smith as Aren
David Alan Grier as Roger An-Li Bogan as Lizzie
Drew Tarver as Jason
Michaela Watkins as Masterson Aisha Hinds as Gabbard
Tim Baltz as Officer Miller Rupert Friend as Mick
Nicole Byer as DeDe

Production:
The American Society of Magical Negroes was developed by Kobi Libii as part of the Sundance's Screenwriters and Directors Lab.
In March 2021, SFFILM confirmed that the film was awarded the 2021 Dolby Institute Fellowships, earning industry guidance and a cash grant enabling them to work with a sound designer at the screenwriting stage.
The film is a satire of the Magical Negro trope.
